[[{]]
## Build a Custom LLM Chatbot on Your Enterprise Data that keeps sensitive information secure.
How to leverage the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Architecture for your use case
Author: Tobias Zwingmann (2023-04-28)

Chatbots can streamline processes and save time, but building one
without exposing private data is challenging.

We'll discuss the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Architecture,
a solution that helps protect sensitive data while still delivering a
great chatbot experience.

Let's dive in!
Understanding the Retrieval-Augmented Generation Architecture (RAG)

Most enterprise customers are still hesitant to touch LLM technology
because they are afraid that:

    it's hard to do technically

    it requires exposing their private data

    it's still experimental and not ready for production

    it requires them to fine-tune an LLM which is expensive

The Retrieval-Augmented Generation Architecture addresses these
concerns.

To make things clear up front:

There isn't a single best way to build your custom chatbot.

Depending on your setup it might indeed be very hard or you might
indeed need to fine-tune an LLM over multiple rounds of iteration.

But the RAG-Architecture is usually a good place to start.

Let's look at it from a high level and a concrete use case:
Step 1: Problem Statement

Here’s our example:

Our enterprise needs an internal chatbot that can provide
straightforward answers to common HR-related questions from
employees, such as how to apply for leave and where to find specific
policy documents.

The kind of problem you want to solve dictates the architecture of
your chatbot.

Here are some clarifying questions you should anwer for yourself:

    What's the goal of your chatbot?

    Will it be used internally or externally?

    Which data sources will your chatbot access?

    Do you need to consider individual access rights?

    Who should be involved in the development process?

    Should the chatbot be able to cite sources and provide links?

In our example, the main purpose of the chatbot is to provide
HR-related guidance to internal employees to reduce the workload of
HR staff. The information is largely stored in PDF documents, and we
want to cite the source from which the bot got the answer and provide
links to relevant policy documents.
Step 2: Solution Breakdown

The RAG architecture (see figure below) solves this problem by
integrating two key components: a Retriever component a Generator
component.

The Retriever component is responsible for finding relevant
information based on the user's input, while the Generator uses this
information to provide a natural language response.

Besides that, a user-facing application will handle the interface and
integration of the two components.

Let's walk through this architecture step-by-step and explore what's
happening here.
User Layer

The user layer is the frontend that the user interacts with. When
designing an application like this, it's important to be clear about
the requirements and user stories.

That means:

What should the chatbot be able to do and how will users interact
with it?

This has nothing to do with AI.

Just good old UX design.

In our example, let's say it's an internal web application where
users can enter a text query. They will receive answers in the chat
window related to HR policies and procedures, with a hyperlink to the
original documents if necessary.

The chatbot should refuse to answer any question that is not found in
the document. For example, if a user asks it about the weather or the
CEO's performance, it will provide a defined response such as "I
can't answer that".

We will learn how to implement this later.
Data Layer

Before we dive into the Generator and Retriever components, let's
quickly discuss the data layer of this use case.

As mentioned above, we're not training or fine-tuning an LLM. So the
data layer would consist only of the documents you want the chatbot
to have access to, such as PDFs, HTML, Office documents, or any other
format that the Retriever component can work with.

To keep things simple in our example, let's assume all files are
stored in a GDrive folder and we're working mostly with PDFs.

We will also store the queries and answers in a separate log file so
that we can access it later for monitoring.

Time to look into the analysis layer!
Analysis Layer

The analysis layer is where "the magic happens".

In this layer, we need three key components:

    The Generator (the LLM)

    The Retriever (the search model)

    The App Server (our backend)

To demonstrate the interplay between them, let's look at an example.
Understanding the question entry

Suppose the user asks the following question:

"How many days can I take off?"

The language model (Generator) will interpret the user's input and
analyze it to understand their intent. It will then format this into
a query that the Retriever can work to fetch the relevant documents.

Example keywords: “Working time regulations”, “holidays”,
“vacation”

The Retriever can be literally any search component - from a
classical keyword-based search, to a vector-based semantic search
powered by another LLM or a combination of both approaches. In
enterprise cases, you could also rely on a fully managed search
service like Azure Cognitive Search or Google Cloud Search.

The strength of this architecture lies in its ability to leverage the
flexibility of the LLM to comprehend the user's intent and to provide
information to the Retriever in an appropriate way (e. g. keywords or
embeddings).

That makes it a powerful combination to understand what the user
really wants and get the most relevant documents.

The Retriever will then go and find the top N relevant documents from
our file system.

So what's next?
Generating the answer

Instead of just showing the documents in a list form, we can use the
Generator again to summarize and paraphrase the relevant information
in a conversational style that is easy for users to understand.

So instead of just showing the vacation policy document, the
Generator could formulate an answer like:

"You can take 28 days of paid leave and an additional 30 days of
unpaid leave, subject to your manager's approval. See these documents
for more information: ..."

To create this answer, the Generator takes the relevant snippets
found by the retriever and adds them directly to the prompt as
additional context - so there's no fine-tuning involved.

This way, the conversation feels more natural and engaging, and the
users get the information they need immediately, without going
through a long list of documents.

So how do we control the behavior of the chatbot and prevent it from
answering questions that are not found in the documents?

Well, we simply specify the desired behavior in the system prompt.
For example, we could create a system prompt like this:

Act as a document that I am having a conversation with. Your name is
"AI Assistant". You will provide me with answers from the given
context. If the answer is not included, say exactly "I don’t know,
please contact HR". Refuse to answer any question not about the
context.

That's how we deploy a chatbot without exposing private data and
controlled behavior.
Step 3: Limitations

But wait a minute! you might say.

The LLM can still access the user inputs and also the relevant parts
from the documents that the user searched for. So don't we expose
sensitive information here?

It’s true that there is still a risk of exposing sensitive
information when using this architecture, as the LLM handles the user
inputs and sees parts of the relevant documents.

This is where you need to balance things off.

If you have highly sensitive documents, it's essential to prevent any
private data from being leaked during the information retrieval
process. One way to do this is by deploying or building your own LLM
in-house.

On the other hand, if you are more concerned with trustworthy data
processing that occurs within your organization or a specific region,
you can try using enterprise-integrated LLMs such as OpenAI on
Microsoft Azure which lets you deploy any OpenAI model within your
Azure subscription in your desired region. With this approach, you
can have contracts and policies in place to control your data and
ensure that it's not exposed or used for further training.

To sum up, deploying a chatbot that preserves customer privacy
requires thoughtful consideration of the data sources and resources
used.
Step 4: Next steps

Of course, we've only covered the tip of the iceberg. If you wanted
to bring a use case like this into production there are some more
things you should consider.

Examples include:

    Access management

    Monitoring the performance

    Controlling the LLM behavior and guardrails

While none of these points is trivial, they are also far away from
being insurmountable challenges. The RAG architecture provides you
with a solid foundation to build upon, and with proper planning and
execution, a privacy-preserving chatbot can be successfully deployed
for your organization.

Feel free to reach out if you need help!
Conclusion

I hope you have seen how you can deploy a custom LLM-based chatbot
while keeping data secure using the RAG architecture.

If you like, you can dive deeper from there, focusing on either the
information retrieval or generation parts, and consider different
options for building the chatbot.

As always, thanks for reading.

Hit reply and let me know what think - I'd love to hear from you!


    Paper: Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks
           https://arxiv.org/pdf/2005.11401.pdf?utm_source=earizon.github.com/txt_world_domination
[[}]]
